README.md, before:

# **Task Buddy - Task Management App**


## **Introduction**

Task Buddy is a task management application designed to help users organize, prioritize, and track their tasks efficiently. Built with modern frontend technologies and integrated with Google Firebase for real-time data management, Task Buddy offers a seamless user experience for managing daily tasks.

## **Key Features:**

- Create, update, and delete tasks.

- Real-time synchronization using Firebase.

- User authentication and secure data storage.

- Intuitive and responsive user interface.

## **Technologies Used**

- React JS: For building the user interface.

- TypeScript: For adding type safety and improving code quality.

- Google Firebase: For backend services, including authentication, database, and hosting.

- Redux: For state management across the application.

## **Installation**

To set up Task Buddy locally, follow these steps:


**Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/username/task-buddy.git
```
**Navigate to the project directory:**

```bash
cd task-buddy
```
**Install dependencies:**

```bash
npm install
```
**Build the project:**

```bash
npm run build
```
**Start the development server:**

```bash
npm start
```
**Open your browser and visit http://localhost:5173/ to view the app.**


## **Usage**

**Sign Up/Log In:** Create an account or log in using your google account.

**Add Tasks:** Click on the "Add Task" button to create a new task.

**Edit or Delete Tasks:** Use the edit and delete icons to manage your tasks.

**Real-Time Updates:** All changes are synchronized in real-time using Firebase.


## **Features**

**User Authentication:** Secure sign-up and login using Firebase Authentication.

**Task Management:** Create, update, and delete tasks with ease.

**Real-Time Sync:** Changes are reflected instantly across all devices.

**Responsive Design:** Works seamlessly on desktop, tablet, and mobile devices.

## **Live Link:** [TaskBuddy](https://taskbuddy-sable.vercel.app/)

## Pending Tasks of Assessment

- **Attachment Feature:**
Due to billing issues with Google Cloud Storage, I was unable to implement the file storage functionality on the cloud. As a temporary workaround, I converted files to Base64 format for storage. However, this approach has introduced some bugs that need to be addressed.

- **Drag-and-Drop Task Arrangement:**
The drag-and-drop functionality for rearranging tasks remains incomplete due to time constraints. This feature is essential for improving user experience and task management flexibility.

Special thanks to The Alter Office for providing the assinment and the resources.

Contact
For questions, feedback, or support, please reach out to:

Your Name: hrishikeshprasadc@gmail.com

Project Repository: [GitHub Repository Link](https://github.com/hr-ishi94/task-buddy-app/)

Commit message:

Challenges faced updated on README.md

README.md, after:

# **Task Buddy - Task Management App**


## **Introduction**

Task Buddy is a task management application designed to help users organize, prioritize, and track their tasks efficiently. Built with modern frontend technologies and integrated with Google Firebase for real-time data management, Task Buddy offers a seamless user experience for managing daily tasks.

## **Key Features:**

- Create, update, and delete tasks.

- Real-time synchronization using Firebase.

- User authentication and secure data storage.

- Intuitive and responsive user interface.

## **Technologies Used**

- React JS: For building the user interface.

- TypeScript: For adding type safety and improving code quality.

- Google Firebase: For backend services, including authentication, database, and hosting.

- Redux: For state management across the application.

## **Installation**

To set up Task Buddy locally, follow these steps:


**Clone the repository:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/username/task-buddy.git
```
**Navigate to the project directory:**

```bash
cd task-buddy
```
**Install dependencies:**

```bash
npm install
```
**Build the project:**

```bash
npm run build
```
**Start the development server:**

```bash
npm start
```
**Open your browser and visit http://localhost:5173/ to view the app.**


## **Usage**

**Sign Up/Log In:** Create an account or log in using your google account.

**Add Tasks:** Click on the "Add Task" button to create a new task.

**Edit or Delete Tasks:** Use the edit and delete icons to manage your tasks.

**Real-Time Updates:** All changes are synchronized in real-time using Firebase.


## **Features**

**User Authentication:** Secure sign-up and login using Firebase Authentication.

**Task Management:** Create, update, and delete tasks with ease.

**Real-Time Sync:** Changes are reflected instantly across all devices.

**Responsive Design:** Works seamlessly on desktop, tablet, and mobile devices.

## **Challenges Faced**

One of the biggest challenges I faced was working with TypeScript, as I had no prior experience with it. Initially, I was concerned, but I dedicated a full day to learning it and successfully completed the assignment.

This became a key achievement for me, as I had been considering to learn TypeScript for a while. Working with it helped me understand type errors early, improving code quality and debugging efficiency. This experience strengthened my ability to quickly adapt, learn new technologies, and deliver results under tight deadlines.

## **Live Link:** [TaskBuddy](https://taskbuddy-sable.vercel.app/)

## Pending Tasks of Assessment

- **Attachment Feature:**
Due to billing issues with Google Cloud Storage, I was unable to implement the file storage functionality on the cloud. As a temporary workaround, I converted files to Base64 format for storage. However, this approach has introduced some bugs that need to be addressed.

- **Drag-and-Drop Task Arrangement:**
The drag-and-drop functionality for rearranging tasks remains incomplete due to time constraints. This feature is essential for improving user experience and task management flexibility.

Special thanks to The Alter Office for providing the assinment and the resources.

Contact
For questions, feedback, or support, please reach out to:

Your Name: hrishikeshprasadc@gmail.com

Project Repository: [GitHub Repository Link](https://github.com/hr-ishi94/task-buddy-app/)
